# **Tome of Cthulhu**

The Great Old One Cthulhu’s mind is so elemental that even while he dreams, his followers can use the power inherent in his thoughts, shaping his arcane visions to bring about change. Based on water magic, Cthulhu’s spell tome is primarily used by his children, the Deep Ones, spawn of Father Dagon and Mother Hydra. Mortal spellcasters who worship the Great Old One may also draw upon these incantations to summon the power of the unwholesome deep.

---
## **Call of the Deep**

Just as the ocean depths call to creatures swimming near the surface, beckoning them deeper, this spell awakens a powerful urge that compels those affected to move toward the nearest body of water, heedless of the harm it might cause them.

- **Skill:** Resilience
- **Difficulty:** Challenging (+0), opposed by target’s Willpower + Resilience
- **Cost:** 5 Drain. In addition, each Effect rolled on the cost adds 1 to Doom.
- **Duration:** Until the end of the current scene
- **Category:** Curse spell


**Spell Effect:** This spell targets a single living creature within Medium range. If the target is affected, it moves toward the nearest large body of water it can see, at the GM’s discretion as to whether a body of water is large enough. The only actions the target may take are moving toward that body of water and trying to break free of the spell, requiring a Willpower + Resilience test with a difficulty of Challenging (+0). If the target reaches the water, it enters and dives downward until it either breaks free of the spell or drowns. If the target cannot see a body of water, it may act normally, as if unaware of the spell’s effects, but the spell remains in effect until it breaks free.

**Success Levels:**
- For 2 Success Levels, the difficulty of any skill test to break free of the spell increases by 1. This is not repeatable.
- For 2 Success Levels, the target moves toward the nearest large body of water whether or not it can see it.

---

## **Curse of Cthulhu**

The spellcaster calls on Cthulhu’s dreams made flesh and projects strange portents and terrible visions of the god who sleeps in the city of R’lyeh, sowing terror and confusion in their enemies’ ranks. Individuals and units affected by the curse become terrified and disoriented, losing focus on the task at hand and suffering significant damage to their willingness to fight.

- **Skill:** Academia
- **Difficulty:** Challenging (+0)
- **Cost:** 4 Drain, Piercing 1
- **Duration:** Instant
- **Category:** Attack spell

**Spell Effect:** All enemies within Close range suffer XXX mental Stress, where XXX equals the spellcaster’s Power +1, with the Piercing 1 and Stun damage effects.
**Flawed:** A flawed version of this spell affects all creatures within range, not just enemies.
**Success Levels:**
- For 2 Success Levels, add the Persistent 4 damage effect to the damage; the persistent damage also has the Stun effect.

---

## **Echo of the Ocean**

The spellcaster calls forth an evocation of the ocean’s limitless depths to strengthen and reinforce their allies. Anyone imbued with this mighty force feels the raw, surging energy of the waves channeled through them, boosting their strength, performance, and morale until they feel nigh on unstoppable, ready to crash upon their foes like a mighty tsunami.

- **Skill:** Persuasion
- **Difficulty:** Routine (+2)
- **Cost:** 2 Drain
- **Duration:** A number of rounds equal to the spellcaster’s Power
- **Category:** Blessing spell

**Spell Effect:** The spellcaster and all allies within Close range inflict +1 Stress on all their attacks, melee, ranged, and mental, and gain +2 Morale.

---

## **Gift of Cthulhu**

Using this spell, the spellcaster can temporarily take on the properties of a Deep One, even if they do not have any of the Deep Ones’ blood. Eyes bulge and become lidless, gill slits emerge from their neck, webbing appears between their fingers, and their feet elongate and take on a paddle-like quality. They can swim and breathe in the depths as if they were a partially transformed Deep One-human hybrid. Although the transformation is striking, the effects are not usually permanent, though a rare few suffer a profound longing to return to the comfort of the deeps.

- **Skill:** Survival
-  **Difficulty:** Challenging (+0); if targeted at an unwilling victim, opposed by the target’s Willpower + Resilience (Difficulty Challenging (+0))
- **Cost:** 4 Drain, Piercing 1
- **Duration:** A number of days equal to the spellcaster’s Power, or earlier if the spellcaster chooses to end the effect
- **Category:** Transmutation spell

**Spell Effect:** The spell targets either the spellcaster or a single human within Reach. The target transforms, gaining the truth Deep One transmutation, representing their ability to breathe underwater, their ease at moving underwater, and their peculiar physical appearance. The target also gains an Athletics focus in Swimming. In addition, the character gains the Nauseating ability. When the spell’s effects end, unwilling targets must roll to see if they develop a scar, as if they had recovered from a mental injury.
**Success Levels:**
- If cast upon an unwilling victim, for 2 Success Levels the target also suffers 4 Piercing 2 mental damage.
- If cast upon the spellcaster themselves, or a willing target, for 2 Success Levels they may choose to suppress their transmutation for periods of up to an hour to allow them to hide without ending the effect.

---

## **Pool of Limpid Bliss**

Utilizing this unholy spell, the spellcaster causes a beautiful-looking pool to form that gleams and glistens, containing beautiful bathing water, nymphs, and handsome satyrs. Any individual who passes within Close range of the pool’s seductive area of effect must try to resist its watery allure. If they fail, they throw down their weapons and attempt to bathe in its glorious waters, floating there before sinking to drown in liquid ecstasy.

- **Skill:** Resilience
- **Difficulty:** Difficult (-2)
- **Cost:** 5 Drain
- **Duration:** Until the end of the current scene
- **Category:** Manifestation spell

**Spell Effect:** Choose a zone within Medium range; a pool of water, woven with spells of attraction, appears in that zone. Enemies in that zone at the start of their turn must attempt a Willpower + Resilience test with a difficulty of Challenging (+0). Failure means they suffer 4 mental Stress with the Stun damage effect, and must move into the pool if not already within it. If stunned, they still move into the pool, compelled by the spell’s effects. A character who is Defeated by mental Stress caused by the pool will submerge themselves in the pool and begin Dying as they allow themselves to drown.
**Success Levels:**
- For 2 Success Levels, increase the difficulty of all tests to resist the spell’s effects by 1.
- For 1 Success Level, increase the Stress the spell inflicts by +1 per Success Level spent.
- For 2 Success Levels, add the Piercing 1 effect.

---

## **Swimmer in the Elder Current**

Harnessing this watery enchantment, the spellcaster transforms themselves and any nearby allies into a purely liquid form. While in this state they are impervious to all damage and can flow according to the spellcaster’s will, escaping immediate harm and slipping away from danger.

- **Skill:** Survival
- **Difficulty:** Challenging (+0)
- **Cost:** 4 Drain, Stun
- **Duration:** Instant
- **Category:** Blessing spell

**Spell Effect:** The spell may affect the spellcaster and any of the spellcaster’s allies within Close range, up to a number of targets equal to half the spellcaster’s Power, rounding up. The affected characters transform into water and flow away, reappearing moments later at any point within sight within Long range. Characters moved in this manner cannot take actions in their following turn, as if affected by the Stun effect.
**Success Levels:**
- For 2 Success Levels, all characters transported by the spell receive +2 Cover until the start of the spellcaster’s next turn.
- For 2 Success Levels, all characters transported by the spell other than the spellcaster recover Stress equal to the spellcaster’s Survival skill.

---

## **Wave Storm**

Summoning a maelstrom of spinning, unpredictable liquid fury, the spellcaster projects a column of tempestuous water at their foes, enveloping them in watery doom. The vortex is short-lived and unpredictable, blown this way and that as if by an ocean storm, but any caught in its embrace will often have breathed their last.

- **Skill:** Survival
- **Difficulty:** Challenging (+0)
- **Cost:** 5 Drain, Piercing 1
- **Duration:** A number of rounds equal to the spellcaster’s Power
- **Category:** Summoning spell

**Spell Effect:** The spell conjures a vortex of water into a zone within Medium range. The vortex receives its own turn in the action order, but it cannot be attacked or suffer damage in any way. At the start of the vortex’s turn, it inflicts physical Stress equal to the spellcaster’s Power +1, with the Piercing 1 and Snare damage effects on all creatures and damageable objects within Close range of it, before moving to an adjacent zone, carrying any creatures it ensnares with it. Each time the vortex moves, the spellcaster may choose the direction if they are within Medium range of it. If the spellcaster is further away from the vortex than that, then the vortex remains stationary. The GM may spend 1 Doom to move the vortex instead when the spellcaster is further than Medium range from it.
**Flawed:** A flawed version of this spell does not allow the spellcaster to control the vortex and does not require the GM to spend any Doom to move the vortex.
**Success Levels:** The spellcaster may increase the Stress the vortex deals by +1 per Success Levels spent.

---

## **Rituals of Cthulhu**

Catholicon of Cthulhu: See Healing, [[06.9-ritualistic-magic#HEALING]]   
Cthulhu’s Web: See Protection, [[06.9-ritualistic-magic#PROTECTION]] .  
Summon Cthulhu: See Evoke/Dismiss Deity,  [[06.9-ritualistic-magic#EVOKE/DISMISS DEITY]] .  
