# Cults

###The Anointed One  
(also: Jesus, Christ, the Saviour, the Lamb of God) 

The Son of God, Promising an Eternal Afterlife 

#### Nature of the God
 The Anointed One is essentially a god of love, forgiveness and tolerance. In fact he is recognised not as a god, but as the son of a god called the Nameless One, and as such worshipped separately - almost as a channel to reach the ear of that god. The Anointed One was heralded in Solyman culture long before he arrived in the flesh, three hundred years ago. He was born as a mortal baby in a dusty Solyman village and grew up as a follower of the Nameless One ("my father").  Given the name 'Jesus', he became a magician who preached messages of love, kindness and self-sacrifice, while also railing against debts and the economic forces of the Imperium. The priests of the Nameless One were allies of the Imperium and saw this man as a danger to be eliminated. With Imperial approval (for the Empire held sway in Solyma in that age) they crucified him. After his death, the magician Jesus is reputed to have walked again on earth before joining his father in heaven. As such, the Anointed One represents resurrection and hope.
#####  Cult Centres 
Hierosolyma, Tarsus, Antioch, Cyrene, the Eternal City.
#####  Associations 
Small statuettes of the Anointed One depict him nailed to the cross, a longhaired bearded man in his 30s. He appears calm and serene. The symbol of the cult is the Crucifix, the cross upon which the Anointed One was crucified. The sign of the fish is often used by cult members as a covert symbol of recognition. Palm leaves are also a symbol of the cult. 
###### Cult Practices 
The cult meets weekly in secret on Sun Day, often in local caves or cellars hidden from view. The symbol of the fish is commonly drawn in the sand by visiting cultists to gain access to meetings. A candle is lit at the start of each meeting, and this ceremony has now taken on a magical significance, symbol of hope and comfort. There are no animal sacrifices, only prayer, liturgies and sermons. The Mass is a regular ceremony that recreates the Anointed One's Last Supper with his loyal cult followers, prior to his own execution. In the ceremony members of the cult drink the blood of Christ (red wine) and eat the flesh of Christ (bread). If the rumours of the Empire are to be believed the Christians actually eat real human flesh and drink human blood.  Initiate Membership The cult is a flourishing religion, but a clandestine one. It is most popular amongst the poor, amongst slaves, women and the oppressed. Still, Christians from a wide variety of backgrounds congregate in secret, soldiers, Imperial officials, scribes and so on. Initiates take turns to read the writings of Jesus' companions (if they can read), or to lead prayers. There is no formal structure at this level.  
##### Status & Role of Priesthood 
Priests of the cult are those individuals who show inspired leadership, and are able to provide the meeting with hope, light and safety. Slaves are as likely to be priests as wealthy councillors. Women are not eligible for priesthood. Large cities with several Christian meeting houses are co-ordinated by a high priest (bishop). These bishops regularly communicate with one another, and sometimes even meet in person if the political conditions are favourable. The bishops pay deference to the bishop of the Eternal City, since the first bishop of the cult (Simon Peter) had his meeting house here before he was executed by the Empire. The cult is generally hated and despised by almost everyone. The Solymans deny the divine nature of Jesus and consider the cult a betrayal of the Nameless One. The Emperor often outlaws the cult and carries out massacres of Christians because the cult refuses to pay him homage or recognise the protective gods of the Empire. Without this recognition, the Olympian gods will bring down their wrath upon the Empire. In addition, suspicion is rife that these cultists kill, dismember and eat one of their 'flock' at ritual meals and drink that victim's blood. Since the cultists also call one another 'brother' and 'sister', it is widely believed that the Christians practice incest. Whether any of this is true is up to the referee.  Preferred Divination The Word of God received after a day of fasting and sleep deprivation while out in the wilds.  
- **Preferred Staff Type** Shepherd's Crook 
- **Preferred Animal Familiar** None 
- **Preferred Amulet** Simple cross fashioned from wood 
- **Allied Cults** None 